[FAB-17199] Add new test network tutorial (#369)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/test_network.md

# Using the Fabric test network

After you have downloaded the Hyperledger Fabric Docker images and samples, you
can deploy a test network by using scripts that are provided in the
`fabric-samples` repository. You can use the test network for development and
testing, and as a way to learn about Fabric by running nodes on your local
machine.

The sample network deploys a Fabric network with Docker Compose. Because the
nodes communicate with each other on a Docker Compose network, you cannot connect

> other running Fabric nodes to the test network. The network is meant to be used

Reviewer: The use of "Docker Compose network" will be confusing, I think. The idea here is that the nodes are isolated. So maybe "Because the nodes are isolated within Docker Compose", etc.

Author: done

only as a tool for education and testing. It should not be used as a template

> for deploying a production network.

Reviewer: I might lead with this --- that it's not a template for  deploying a production network --- up top.

Author: Done.

   -d <delay> - delay duration in seconds (defaults to 3)
   -f <docker-compose-file> - specify which docker-compose file use (defaults to docker-compose-cli.yaml)
   -s <dbtype> - the database backend to use: goleveldb (default) or couchdb
   -l <language> - the programming language of the chaincode to deploy: go (default), javascript, or java
   -v <version>  - chaincode version. Must be a round number, 1, 2, 3, etc
   -i <imagetag> - the tag to be used to launch the network (defaults to "latest")
   -verbose - verbose mode
 network.sh -h (print this message)

Example use

Taking all defaults:
 network.sh up

Using flags:
 network.sh up createChannel -ca -c mychannel -s couchdb -i 1.4.0
 network.sh createChannel -c channelName
 network.sh deployCC -l node
```

From inside the `test-network` directory, you can bring up the network by issuing
the following command. You will experience problems if you try to run the script
from another directory:
```
./network.sh up
```

This command creates a Fabric network that consists of two peer nodes, one
ordering node, and an instance of the Fabric tools container. If the command

> completes successfully, you script will print out the following logs of the nodes

Reviewer: This seems misplaced. You're in effect asking people to run a test network when they have no idea what it contains.

I get why --- people shouldn't have to dig around for the script command, but I would at least link to the "components of the network section" somewhere near the beginning so that first time readers can jump down and find out what's in the network they're deploying.

Author: I am going to leave as is. People have the notion of a blockchain network before they know what it does. The components overview is the directly section below, so I do not think that there needs to be a link.

> being created.

Reviewer: Logs similar to these, not these exact logs (the container IDs will be different).

Author: done

Creating orderer.example.com    ... done
Creating peer0.org2.example.com ... done
Creating cli                    ... done
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                               COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS                  PORTS                    NAMES
3d944d39fab3        hyperledger/fabric-tools:latest     "/bin/bash"         2 seconds ago       Up Less than a second                            cli
280eaff2c840        hyperledger/fabric-peer:latest      "peer node start"   5 seconds ago       Up 1 second             0.0.0.0:9051->9051/tcp   peer0.org2.example.com
0907470d42ee        hyperledger/fabric-orderer:latest   "orderer"           5 seconds ago       Up 1 second             0.0.0.0:7050->7050/tcp   orderer.example.com
f1edf38980b5        hyperledger/fabric-peer:latest      "peer node start"   5 seconds ago       Up 2 seconds            0.0.0.0:7051->7051/tcp   peer0.org1.example.com
```

If you don't get this result, jump down to [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
for help on what might have gone wrong.

### The components of the test network

When the network running on your machine, you should take some time to examine

> what was created by the script. Run the following command to list all of Docker

Reviewer: After your test network has deployed, take some time to examine the components inside of it.

Author: Done

containers that are running on your machine. You should see the four nodes that
were created by the `network.sh` script:
```
docker ps -a
```

Each node and user that interacts with a Fabric network needs to belong to an
organization that is a network member. The group of organizations that are
members of a Fabric network are often referred to as the consortium. The test

> network has two consortium members, `org1.example.com` and `org2.example.com`.

Reviewer: It might be simpler to understand these as simply Org1 and Org2. IMO, you're referring here to organizations that exist logically, not the physical manifestation of them on the network in the form of an MSP.

Author: Done

The network also includes one orderer organization, `example.com`, who maintains
the ordering service of the network.

Peer are the fundamental components of any Fabric network. Peers store the
blockchain ledger and validate transactions before they are committed to the
ledger. Peers run the smart contracts that encode the business logic that is used

> to manage the assets on the blockchain ledger.

Reviewer: Might be better saying something like "Because peers store the ledger and validate (etc -- however you want to describe what they do), they are fundamental components of any Fabric network." You might also want to say here that Org1 and Org2 own peers (whereas the orderer org does not). Therefore, you can think of Org1 and Org2 as peer organizations.

Author: I am going to leave as is to keep things simple.

Every peer in the network needs to belong to a member of the consortium. In the
test network, each organization operates one peer each, `peer0.org1.example.com`
and `peer0.org2.example.com`.

Every Fabric network also includes an ordering service that is the common biding
of the network. While peers validate transactions and add blocks of transactions
to the blockchain ledger, they do not decide on the order of transactions or
include them into new blocks. On a distributed network, peers may be running far
away from each other and not have a common view of when a transaction was created.
Coming to consensus on the order of transactions is a costly process that would
create overhead for the peers.

> 

Reviewer: I don't think "common binding" is a helpful way of describing what the ordering service does. Policies are more accurately described as common binding. Ordering nodes are sort of simple things. Not as simple as a CA, but pretty simple. They perform a degree of validation (not chaincode validation, obviously) and create blocks. They don't, as far as I know, "decide" the order of the transactions in the blocks. I think that's actually determined by the order in which it receives transactions and the block cutting parameters There's also application logic that factors in here around when a transaction begins its life (enabling the peers to bundle, if it needs to, transactions it's sending to the ordering service). I used to know this stuff a little better but I'm fuzzier on it now.

Reviewer: In general I think this section should be linking to other docs where some of these components and processes are conceptually described in more detail. This test network and the doc are starting points for people to branch off. We need to provide some of those links here imo.

Author: "Every Fabric network also includes an ordering service", works well, so I will cut out the common binding. I want to cut down on the number of links, (see the current BYFN), but linking out to the concept topics by making the first "peer" and "ordering Service"
 links seems like a good idea.

ordering nodes come to consensus on the order of transactions and then add them
to blocks. The blocks are then distributed to peer nodes, which then add the blocks
the blockchain ledger. Ordering nodes also operate the system channel that
defines the capabilities of a Fabric network, such as how blocks are made and
which version of Fabric that nodes can use. The system channel defines which
organizations are members of the consortium.

The sample network uses a single node Raft ordering service that is operated by
the ordering organization. You can see the ordering node running on your machine
as `orderer.example.com`. While the test network only uses a single node ordering
service, a real network would have multiple ordering nodes, operated by one or
multiple orderer organizations. The different ordering nodes would use the Raft
consensus algorithm to come to agreement on the order of transactions across
the network.

## Creating a channel

Now that we have peer and orderer nodes running on our machine, we can use the
nodes to create a Fabric channel. Channels are a private layer of communication
that can be used by only certain network members. Channels can be used only by

> organizations that are invited the channel, and are invisible to other members

Reviewer: Channels are private but even more importantly they're where transactions happen (application channels, specifically). A beginner might think that creating nodes and having endpoints is enough. The channel is the context in which any transaction will occur.

Author: I am going to use this instead "Now that we have peer and orderer nodes running on our machine, we can use the script to create a Fabric channel for transactions between Org1 and Org2. Channels are a private layer of communication.."

of the network. Each channel has separate blockchain ledger. Organizations that
have been invited can "join" their peers to the channel to store the channel
ledger and validate the transactions on the channel.

You can use the `network.sh` script to create a channel for `org1.example.com`
and `org2.example.com` and join their peers to the channel. Run the following
command to create a channel called `mychannel`:
```
./network.sh createChannel
```
If the command was successful, you can see the following message printed in your
logs:
```
========= Channel successfully joined ===========
```

You can create additional channels by using the same `createChannel` command and
using the channel flag to specify a new channel name. As an example, you can use
the following command to create a second channel named `channel2`:
```
./network.sh createChannel -c channel2
```

> 

Reviewer: Could I use this command first, before creating mychannel?

Author: Yup, changing this section in response to similar feedback from Pam.

## Starting a chaincode on the channel

After you have created a channel, you can start using smart contracts to
interact with the channel ledger. Smart contracts encode the business logic

> that governs that assets on the blockchain ledger. Applications run by members

Reviewer: "Encode" might be confusing here. Maybe "contain"?

Author: done

of the network can invoke smart contracts to create assets on the ledger, as
well as change and transfer those assets. Applications can also query smart
contracts to query the data on the ledger.

To ensure that transactions are trusted, transactions created using smart
contracts will need to be signed by multiple organizations to be added to the
channel ledger. Multiple signatures ensures that one organization has not
tampered with the ledger on their peer or used business logic that was not
agreed by the network. To sign a transaction, each organization needs to invoke
and execute the smart contract on their peer, which then signs the output of the
transaction. If the output is consistent and has been signed by enough
organizations, the transaction can be committed to the ledger. The policy that
specifies which set organizations on the channel need to execute the smart
contract is referred to as the endorsement policy, which is set for each
chaincode as part of the chaincode definition.

> 

Reviewer: In general, I think it's a bit backwards to have so much in this paragraph and the one below about "how chaincodes work" rather than their conceptual purpose and role in the network (given comparably little space in the first paragraph). All of this stuff about signatures and executing chaincode on their peer is important, but needs to be understood in the context of smart contracts more in general. 

Also worth noting again that we should have links to where some of this stuff is described elsewhere in more detail. I worry that these sections are sort of tweeners --- not going too deep but still trying to give people a good amount of information --- which are incredibly difficult to write. You might find these sections get a lot of scrutiny from maintainers.

Author: I think mentioning the endorsement policy is important, but it is possible that this section can be cut down. I am going to leave as is for the moment, see what scrutiny I get.

```

If you want to invoke a chaincode to change an asset, rather than querying an
asset, you also need to set the environment variables to communicate with the
orderer:
```
# Environment variables for the orderer

export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="OrdererMSP"
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/users/Admin@example.com/msp

> ```

Reviewer: Wouldn't these environment variables mean that you're acting AS the orderer org? Maybe I'm missing something.

Author: no, your right.

`peer0.org2.example.com`:
```
peer chaincode query -C mychannel -n fabcar -c '{"Args":["queryAllCars"]}'
```
The result will show the changed car owner from the invoke command:
```
[{"Key":"CAR0", "Record":{"make":"Toyota","model":"Prius","colour":"blue","owner":"Dave"}},{"Key":"CAR1", "Record":{"make":"Ford","model":"Mustang","colour":"red","owner":"Brad"}},{"Key":"CAR2", "Record":{"make":"Hyundai","model":"Tucson","colour":"green","owner":"Jin Soo"}},{"Key":"CAR3", "Record":{"make":"Volkswagen","model":"Passat","colour":"yellow","owner":"Max"}},{"Key":"CAR4", "Record":{"make":"Tesla","model":"S","colour":"black","owner":"Adriana"}},{"Key":"CAR5", "Record":{"make":"Peugeot","model":"205","colour":"purple","owner":"Michel"}},{"Key":"CAR6", "Record":{"make":"Chery","model":"S22L","colour":"white","owner":"Aarav"}},{"Key":"CAR7", "Record":{"make":"Fiat","model":"Punto","colour":"violet","owner":"Pari"}},{"Key":"CAR8", "Record":{"make":"Tata","model":"Nano","colour":"indigo","owner":"Valeria"}},{"Key":"CAR9", "Record":{"make":"Holden","model":"Barina","colour":"brown","owner":"Shotaro"}}]
```

## Bring up the network with Certificate Authorities

> Hyperledger Fabric uses public key infrastructure (PKI) to verify the actions of

Reviewer: These "bring up the network" sections are organized somewhat strangely to me, especially this one after the CLI section above. I might put all of these sections together, either before or after the CLI section, and have links at the top of the doc that can take people down to these "optional deployment" sections.

Author: I debated this in terms of putting it above the channel creation, but I wanted to create a friendly experience where users were not hit by too much information to quickly. I will put a link to this section from the top however.

############ Create Org1 Identities ######################
##########################################################
+ cryptogen generate --config=./organizations/cryptogen/crypto-config-org1.yaml --output=organizations
org1.example.com
+ res=0
+ set +x
##########################################################
############ Create Org2 Identities ######################
##########################################################
+ cryptogen generate --config=./organizations/cryptogen/crypto-config-org2.yaml --output=organizations
org2.example.com
+ res=0
+ set +x
##########################################################
############ Create Orderer Org Identities ###############
##########################################################
+ cryptogen generate --config=./organizations/cryptogen/crypto-config-orderer.yaml --output=organizations
+ res=0
+ set +x
```

However, `network.sh` also provides the option to bring up the network using
Certificate Authorities (CAs). In a production network, each organization would
operate a CA (or multiple intermediate CAs) that creates the identities that
belong to their organization. All the identities that are created by the organizations

> CA would share the same root of trust. Although it takes more time to run the

Reviewer: All of the identities created by a CA run by the organization would share the same root of trust.

Author: done

for each organization in the network.
```
##########################################################
##### Generate certificates using Fabric CA's ############
##########################################################
Creating network "net_default" with the default driver
Creating ca_org2    ... done
Creating ca_org1    ... done
Creating ca_orderer ... done
```

The script then uses the Fabric CA client to register the users that belong to
each organization and generate the certificates and keys for each identity. You
can find the commands that are used to set up the network in the `registerEnroll.sh`
script in the `organizations/fabric-ca` directory. To learn more about how you
would use the Fabric CA to deploy a Fabric network, visit the
[Fabric CA operations guide](Link to guide.html).

## Bring Down the Network

When you are finished using the test network, you can bring down the network
with the following command:
```
./network.sh down
```

The command will stop and remove the node containers, remove the crypto material
and the system channel genesis block, and delete the chaincode images from your

> Docker Registry.

Reviewer: This seems low to me, particularly since you have the command above as part of the CA flow.

Author: done

      - 'deployCC' - Deploy a chainocode on the channel
      - 'down' - clear the network with docker-compose down
      - 'restart' - restart the network

    Flags:
    -ca <use CAs> -  create Certificate Authorities to generate the crypto material
    -c <channel name> - channel name to use (defaults to "mychannel")
    -s <dbtype> - the database backend to use: goleveldb (default) or couchdb
    -r <max retry> - CLI times out after certain number of attempts (defaults to 5)
    -d <delay> - delay duration in seconds (defaults to 3)
    -l <language> - the programming language of the chaincode to deploy: go (default), javascript, or java
    -v <version>  - chaincode version. Must be a round number, 1, 2, 3, etc
    -i <imagetag> - the tag to be used to launch the network (defaults to "latest")
    -verbose - verbose mode
  network.sh -h (print this message)

 Possible Mode and flags
  network.sh up -ca -c -r -d -s -i -verbose
  network.sh up createChannel -ca -c -r -d -s -i -verbose
  network.sh createChannel -c -r -d -verbose
  network.sh deployCC -l -v -r -d -verbose

 Taking all defaults:
	network.sh up

 Examples:

>   network.sh up createChannel -ca -c mychannel -s couchdb -i 1.4.0

Reviewer 2: Channel creation is failing while executing this command. Could be timeout issue.. Add re-try or sleep after spinup the fabric network.

Author: This happens because the ordering service has not started. Added retry to the create command to solve.

and execute the smart contract on their peer, which then signs the output of the
transaction. If the output is consistent and has been signed by enough
organizations, the transaction can be committed to the ledger. The policy that
specifies the set organizations on the channel that need to execute the smart
contract is referred to as the endorsement policy, which is set for each
chaincode as part of the chaincode definition.

In Fabric, smart contracts are deployed on the network in packages referred to
as chaincode. A Chaincode is installed on the peers of an organization and then
deployed to a channel, where it can then be used to endorse transactions and
interact with the blockchain ledger. Before a chaincode can be deployed to a
channel, the members of the channel need to agree on a chaincode definition that
establishes chaincode governance. When the required number of organizations
agree, the chaincode definition can be committed to the channel, and the
chaincode is ready to be used.

After you have used the `network.sh` to create a channel, you can start a
chaincode on the channel using the following command:
```

> network.sh installCC

Reviewer 2: This should be deployCC. I don't see installCC in network.sh script.

Author: done.

```

> The `installCC` subcommand will install the **fabcar** chaincode on

Reviewer 2: same here. Should be deployCC.

Author: done.

Make sure that you are operating from the `test-network` directory. If you
followed the instructions to [install the Samples, Binaries and Docker Images](install.html),
You can find the `peer` binaries in the `bin` folder of the `fabric-samples`
repository. Use the following command to add those binaries to your CLI Path:
```
export PATH=${PWD}/../bin:${PWD}:$PATH
```
You also need to set the `FABRIC_CFG_PATH` to point to the `core.yaml` file in
the `fabric-samples` repository:
```
export FABRIC_CFG_PATH=$PWD/../config/
```
You can now set the environment variables that allow you to operate the `peer`
 CLI as Org1:
```
# Environment variables for Org1

export CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=true
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/Admin@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

The `CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE` and `CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH` environment
variables point to the Org1 crypto material in the `organizations` folder.

> If you used `./network.sh installCC` to install and start the fabcar chaincode,

Reviewer 2: Same here. Rename InstallCC to deployCC

Author: done.

and execute the smart contract on their peer, which then signs the output of the
transaction. If the output is consistent and has been signed by enough
organizations, the transaction can be committed to the ledger. The policy that
specifies the set organizations on the channel that need to execute the smart
contract is referred to as the endorsement policy, which is set for each
chaincode as part of the chaincode definition.

In Fabric, smart contracts are deployed on the network in packages referred to
as chaincode. A Chaincode is installed on the peers of an organization and then
deployed to a channel, where it can then be used to endorse transactions and
interact with the blockchain ledger. Before a chaincode can be deployed to a
channel, the members of the channel need to agree on a chaincode definition that
establishes chaincode governance. When the required number of organizations
agree, the chaincode definition can be committed to the channel, and the
chaincode is ready to be used.

After you have used the `network.sh` to create a channel, you can start a
chaincode on the channel using the following command:
```

> network.sh deployCC

Reviewer 3: this should be ./network.sh deployCC

Author: Done

```

## Bring down the network

When you are finished using the test network, you can bring down the network
with the following command:
```
./network.sh down
```

The command will stop and remove the node containers, remove the crypto material
and the system channel genesis block, and delete the chaincode images from your

> Docker Registry.

Reviewer 4: Does your `./network.sh up` command create docker volumes, like `./byfn.sh up`? If so does `./network.sh down` also remove the docker volumes. Historically that is the most reported problem community members report is that they run `./byfn.sh up` and it fails, they then try to run `./byfn.sh up` again and they get even worse results. It's not obvious they need to run `./byfn.sh down` to delete the volumes in between runs. If it does delete the docker volumes, I think its worth highlighting, even bolding that this happens, and is required to restart the network. I know you say later that you need to run this command before restarting the network, but making it very clear why would probably help us reduce the number of complaints.

Reviewer 3: Yes and yes.

Author: Added the following sentence to this section: `The command also removes the channel artifacts and docker volumes from previous runs, allowing you to run `./network.sh up` again if you encountered any problems.`

Also added volumes to the first point in the troubleshooting section.

8d0c74b9d6af        hyperledger/fabric-orderer:latest   "orderer"           4 seconds ago       Up Less than a second   0.0.0.0:7050->7050/tcp             orderer.example.com
ea1cf82b5b99        hyperledger/fabric-peer:latest      "peer node start"   4 seconds ago       Up Less than a second   0.0.0.0:7051->7051/tcp             peer0.org1.example.com
cd8d9b23cb56        hyperledger/fabric-peer:latest      "peer node start"   4 seconds ago       Up 1 second             7051/tcp, 0.0.0.0:9051->9051/tcp   peer0.org2.example.com
```

If you don't get this result, jump down to [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
for help on what might have gone wrong. By default, the network uses the
cryptogen tool to bring up the network. However, you can also
[bring up the network with Certificate Authorities](#bring-up-the-network-with-certificate-authorities).

### The components of the test network

After your test network is deployed, you can take some time to examine its
components. Run the following command to list all of Docker containers that

> are running on your machine. You should see the four nodes that were created by

Reviewer 5: three nodes

Author: done

previous runs, allowing you to run `./network.sh up` again if you encountered
any problems.

## Bring up the network with Certificate Authorities

Hyperledger Fabric uses public key infrastructure (PKI) to verify the actions of
all network participants. Every node, network administrator, and user submitting
transactions need to have a public certificate and private key to verify their
identity. These identities need to have a valid root of trust, establishing
that the certificates and keys were issued by an organization that is a member
of the network.

The `network.sh` script must create all of the crypto material that is required
to deploy and operate the network before it creates the peer and ordering nodes.

By default, the script uses a tool called cryptogen to create the certificates
and keys. The tool is provided for development and testing, and can quickly
create the required crypto material for Fabric organizations with a valid root
of trust. When you run `./network.sh up`, you can see the cryptogen tool creating
the certificates and keys for Org1, Org2, and the Orderer Org.

```
creating Org1, Org2, and ordering service organization with crypto from 'cryptogen'

> /Usr/fabric-samples/first-network-new/../bin/cryptogen

Reviewer 5: path?

Author: Done

for each organization in the network.
```
##########################################################
##### Generate certificates using Fabric CA's ############
##########################################################
Creating network "net_default" with the default driver
Creating ca_org2    ... done
Creating ca_org1    ... done
Creating ca_orderer ... done
```

The script then uses the Fabric CA client to register the users that belong to
each organization and generate the certificates and keys for each identity. You
can find the commands that are used to set up the network in the `registerEnroll.sh`
script in the `organizations/fabric-ca` directory. To learn more about how you
would use the Fabric CA to deploy a Fabric network, visit the
[Fabric CA operations guide](https://hyperledger-fabric-ca.readthedocs.io/en/latest/operations_guide.html). You can learn more about how
Fabric uses PKI by visiting the [identity](identity/identity.html) and [membership](membership/membership.html) concept topics.

## What's happening behind the scenes?

If you are interested in learning more about the sample network, you can

> investigate the files and scripts in the `sample-network` directory. The steps

Reviewer 5: test-network

Author: done

   configtxgen tool needs this variable in order to locate the configtx.yaml. Go
   back and execute an ``export FABRIC_CFG_PATH=$PWD/configtx/configtx.yaml``,
   then recreate your channel artifacts.

-  If you see an error stating that you still have "active endpoints", then prune
   your Docker networks. This will wipe your previous networks and start you with a
   fresh environment:
   ```
   docker network prune
   ```

   You will see the following message:
   ```
   WARNING! This will remove all networks not used by at least one container.
   Are you sure you want to continue? [y/N]
   ```
   Select ``y``.

-  If you see an error similar to the following:
   ```
   /bin/bash: ./scripts/createChannel.sh: /bin/bash^M: bad interpreter: No such file or directory
   ```

   Ensure that the file in question (**createChannel.sh** in this example) is
   encoded in the Unix format. This was most likely caused by not setting
   ``core.autocrlf`` to ``false`` in your Git configuration (see
   :ref:`windows-extras`). There are several ways of fixing this. If you have
   access to the vim editor for instance, open the file:
   ```

>    vim ./fabric-samples/first-network/scripts/createChannel.sh

Reviewer 5: path?

Author: Done

# Using the Fabric test network

After you have downloaded the Hyperledger Fabric Docker images and samples, you
can deploy a test network by using scripts that are provided in the
`fabric-samples` repository. You can use the test network to learn about Fabric
by running nodes on your local machine. More experienced developers can use the
network to test their smart contracts and applications. The network is meant to
be used only as a tool for education and testing. It should not be used as a
template for deploying a production network.

The sample network deploys a Fabric network with Docker Compose. Because the
nodes are isolated within a Docker Compose network, you cannot connect other

> running Fabric nodes to the test network.

Reviewer 6: technically speaking, docker compose does not prohibit it, one could just expose host port and manually add hosts entries. I guess we could say some thing like:
> extra configurations are needed to connect other running Fabric nodes, and is out of the scope of this tutorial

Author: I would rather be even stronger in terms of telling folks that this is not a prod deployment, and not to try to use it to connect to other nodes. How about this:
`Because the
nodes are isolated within a Docker Compose network, the test network is not
configured to connect to other running fabric nodes.
`

orderer organization that maintains the ordering service of the network.

[Peers](peers/peers.html) are the fundamental components of any Fabric network.
Peers store the blockchain ledger and validate transactions before they are
committed to the ledger. Peers run the smart contracts that contain the business
logic that is used to manage the assets on the blockchain ledger.

Every peer in the network needs to belong to a member of the consortium. In the
test network, each organization operates one peer each, `peer0.org1.example.com`
and `peer0.org2.example.com`.

Every Fabric network also includes an [ordering service](orderer/ordering_service.html).
While peers validate transactions and add blocks of transactions to the
blockchain ledger, they do not decide on the order of transactions or include
them into new blocks. On a distributed network, peers may be running far away
from each other and not have a common view of when a transaction was created.
Coming to consensus on the order of transactions is a costly process that would
create overhead for the peers.

An ordering service allows peers to focus on validating transactions and

> committing them to the ledger. After they receive transactions from peers,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
committing them to the ledger. After ordering nodes receive endorsed transactions from clients, they come to consensus on...
```

Author: done

ordering nodes come to consensus on the order of transactions and then add them
to blocks. The blocks are then distributed to peer nodes, which add the blocks
the blockchain ledger. Ordering nodes also operate the system channel that
defines the capabilities of a Fabric network, such as how blocks are made and
which version of Fabric that nodes can use. The system channel defines which
organizations are members of the consortium.

The sample network uses a single node Raft ordering service that is operated by
the ordering organization. You can see the ordering node running on your machine
as `orderer.example.com`. While the test network only uses a single node ordering
service, a real network would have multiple ordering nodes, operated by one or
multiple orderer organizations. The different ordering nodes would use the Raft
consensus algorithm to come to agreement on the order of transactions across
the network.

## Creating a channel

Now that we have peer and orderer nodes running on our machine, we can use the
script to create a Fabric channel for transactions between Org1 and Org2.
Channels are a private layer of communication between specific network members.

> Channels can be used only by organizations that are invited the channel, and are

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Channels can be used only by organizations that are invited to the channel, and are
```

Author: done

installed, deployed, and invoked correctly, you should see the following list of
cars printed in your logs:
```
[{"Key":"CAR0", "Record":{"make":"Toyota","model":"Prius","colour":"blue","owner":"Tomoko"}},{"Key":"CAR1", "Record":{"make":"Ford","model":"Mustang","colour":"red","owner":"Brad"}},{"Key":"CAR2", "Record":{"make":"Hyundai","model":"Tucson","colour":"green","owner":"Jin Soo"}},{"Key":"CAR3", "Record":{"make":"Volkswagen","model":"Passat","colour":"yellow","owner":"Max"}},{"Key":"CAR4", "Record":{"make":"Tesla","model":"S","colour":"black","owner":"Adriana"}},{"Key":"CAR5", "Record":{"make":"Peugeot","model":"205","colour":"purple","owner":"Michel"}},{"Key":"CAR6", "Record":{"make":"Chery","model":"S22L","colour":"white","owner":"Aarav"}},{"Key":"CAR7", "Record":{"make":"Fiat","model":"Punto","colour":"violet","owner":"Pari"}},{"Key":"CAR8", "Record":{"make":"Tata","model":"Nano","colour":"indigo","owner":"Valeria"}},{"Key":"CAR9", "Record":{"make":"Holden","model":"Barina","colour":"brown","owner":"Shotaro"}}]
===================== Query successful on peer0.org1 on channel 'mychannel' =====================
```

## Interacting with the network

> After you bring up the test network, you can use the `peer` binaries to interact

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
After you bring up the test network, you can use the `peer` cli to interact
```

Author: done

> with your network. The binaries allow you to invoke deployed smart contracts,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
with your network. The `peer` cli allow you to invoke deployed smart contracts,
```

Author: done

   mounted within a container.

   If problems persist, you can remove your images and start from scratch:
   ```
   docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)
   docker rmi -f $(docker images -q)
   ```

-  If you see errors on your create, approve, commit, invoke or query commands,
   make sure you have properly updated the channel name and chaincode name.
   There are placeholder values in the supplied sample commands.

-  If you see the error below:
   ```
   Error: Error endorsing chaincode: rpc error: code = 2 desc = Error installing chaincode code mycc:1.0(chaincode /var/hyperledger/production/chaincodes/mycc.1.0 exits)
   ```

   You likely have chaincode images (e.g. ``dev-peer1.org2.example.com-fabcar-1.0`` or
   ``dev-peer0.org1.example.com-fabcar-1.0``) from prior runs. Remove them and try
   again.
   ```
   docker rmi -f $(docker images | grep peer[0-9]-peer[0-9] | awk '{print $3}')
   ```

-  If you see something similar to the following:
   ```
   Error connecting: rpc error: code = 14 desc = grpc: RPC failed fast due to transport failure
   Error: rpc error: code = 14 desc = grpc: RPC failed fast due to transport failure
   ```

>    Make sure you are running your network against the "1.0.0" images that have

Reviewer 6: is it 1.0.0??

Author: This error must have been in the docs for a while. current network does not even work with 1.0.0. Will remove
